---
layout: article
title: Route 1095 - Thailand
modified:
categories: blog
comments: true
excerpt: "You're in the Old City in Chiang Mai, by the North Gate, when you hear about it for the first time. Route 1095. 762 twists and turns. You'll take a minibus, of course. It's only 180 THB, of course. It'd be reckless to try and attempt it yourself, of course." 
---

You're in the Old City in Chiang Mai, by the North Gate, when you hear about it for the first time. Route 1095. 762 twists and turns. You'll take a minibus, of course. It's only 180 THB, of course. It'd be reckless to try and attempt it yourself, of course.

But now you're thinking about all of the mountains and the valleys and the views and being able to stop along the way to take pictures. The idea stokes the fire within you and you find yourself handing over the five thousand deposit on a scooter.

Pai is a small reclusive town in a valley with green lush mountains towering every way you look. The hiking, the energy, all of it speaks to you from over 50 miles away and calls you to come. From the streets of Bangkok to the sands of Ko Tao to the buses of Surat Thani, all you've heard is how much you'd *love* Pai from people who have spent time there.

So you decide that 4 o'clock in the afternoon isn't too late to leave on an adventure, and the GPS tells you it's only 3 hours, and you figure the sun won't set before then. You'll be there before it gets dark and it won't rain today, of course.
 
You drive on the super highway of Chiang Mai darting through traffic like locals. As you travel farther and farther and approach the on-ramp for Route 1095 you see less farangs like yourself and less English on signs. Soon you've left the multi-lane highway entirely and find yourself surrounded on all sides by the lush greenery only a rainforest could offer. Trees hang over your head, teeth in the maw of the wilderness, trying to swallow the road whole. The road, defiant, bucks and twists, frozen in its writhing attempt leaving only breakneck turns and razor-sharp twists before you. Your mouth is open in a wide grin before it catches its first bug. It relents to a tight-lipped smile.

You're passed by minivans, trucks, and even the head of an 18-wheeler with something large and mechanical on its back. Everyone smiles and gives you thumbs-up as they see you. You're passed by a young man, about your age, in full Royal Thai military garb. He stops just ahead of you and wordlessly offers you a cigarette. You shake your head and smile no before taking off again. 

You pass your first set of villages and towns. Small wooden thatched-roof huts grow in intensity until you reach the heart of these centers. You wonder if you should top off the 3/4 full tank you have and decide against it. You'll see something similar when it's more dire, of course.

But something changes. The sky begins to darken gradually, shining a deep beautiful dark blue. You take off your sunglasses and start to squint into the wind as you twist up and down the well-paved road. You see clouds blanketing the valleys below and want to stop to take a picture, but every time you do the view hides behind trees. You feel an urgency settle in your gut when a sign tells you you're still 40km from Pai at half a tank. You try to convert the kilometers to miles and liters to gallons and guess how long your tank will last, conceding the simple truth that you should have just paid more attention in primary school when you covered Imperial-metric conversions, because now you might be out of luck.

You're reminded of time in the American South, speeding down from the crests of suburban hills feeling the humid blast of wind and adventure blow through you. You felt as wholesome then as you do now, as if you're living a Hemingway novel. You feel like a modern explorer, no matter how well-trodden the path the before you is.

The darkness swallows the day all at once. Funny how being in a foreign place on a foreign road staves off the fears you'd feel on the highways at home. Without Thai-translated stories of Bundy and Manson, you're only afraid of the awesome nature that surrounds you. You're alone now with only the hum of your scooter beneath your feet and the chirping bugs in the forest around you to keep you company. Suddenly as you ascend yet another of the 762 twists you see a large white shape standing still on the road. Cautiously, and frightened, you approach what turns out to be a cow slowly before speeding away. 

Cars light the path before you as they approach from behind. You miss the solitude. You're not sure what type of person this might be, the Good type of person or the Bad type of person, so you clench your teeth through the rain and wait for them to either pass or run you off the road. The only thought on your mind is what would be worse: to run out of gas or crash on the side of the road entirely alone. This trip begins to grow roots and plant itself as a proper Adventure, the kind with fruit you harvest in bars and dinners for years to come. Despite all the fear, you find that you haven't stopped smiling.

Just when you wonder what could go worse, it begins to rain thick and heavy drops all at once. The sky rips open and unleashes a torrential downpour, an honest monsoon. The street grows a skin of running water, and you slow down even more. Your tank is at a quarter and you pass a sign, 30km to go. You've slowed to 30km/h, and you keep yourself from doing that simple math as the cold sets in. By the time you reach your first, then second herd of cattle standing in the darkness you simply slowly manuever around them and speed away, desperate to reach your destination. 

Your needle finally hits the red-zone marked E at about the same time you see the sign that says you've been counting the odometer wrong this whole time... you still have 13km to go, not 3km, on an empty tank. Finally, marked by a huge sign that says "Welcome to Pai" you arrive within the city limits. At first you zoom right past the resort with the lights on, you've got a reservation at a cheap hostel after all. But you realize that though you're within Pai, you've probably got another twenty minutes to go before you arrive in Pai proper, and you turn into the Western-oriented luxury resort. You meekly approach the kitchen staff and ask if you can eat there. Seeing you drenched to the bone they give you every accomodation. By the time you're done filling your plate at the buffet there's hot tea waiting to warm you at your table. They turn the music back on, American neo-Swing Mannuche covers of Sinatra and the Beatles in proper soft jazz French cafe style. You've arrived, but in your heart you feel more that you've survived something grand and queer. They offer you a discounted poolside villa with a king-size bed and private partially outdoor shower and bathroom. You know you should make the hike out to your $3 hostel and save the $12, but you surrender to the warmth of an ourdoor shower. You think it might all just be alright as you sink into the crisply clean sheets of a comfortable king-size bed, dry and safe. 