---
layout: article
title: inque tuo sedisti 
modified:
categories: stories
comments: true
excerpt: "The worst fate is to imagine progress while moving backwards. A short story about the trials of adolescent romance... {16m}"
tags: ["long story", "story"]
image:
  feature: inque-tuo-feature.jpeg
  teaser: inque-tuo-teaser.jpeg
  thumb: inque-tuo-thumb.jpeg
  credit: Alex Jones
  creditlink: https://unsplash.com/alexjones
---

<h4 class="subtitle">Sisyphe, saxo</h4>
<h4 style="margin-top: -15px" class="minutes-to-read">~ 16m ~</h4>

<blockquote>
	You sat upon your rock, Sisyphus.
</blockquote>

Adam wraps his arm around Emily’s waist. The action feels natural. More than natural, it had felt unnatural any other way. Besides, he reasons with himself, he’s warming her up. The cold bites through his pressed khaki pants, and he can’t imagine it’s treating her dress any better. Emily’s arm gingerly finds its way across Adam’s shoulders, and he can feel the dainty unsure touch her of her hand on his pea coat. They walk in comfortable silence, faces distorted in mutual captivation.

The Parrish Lawn looks beautiful this late at night. The lamps dot yellowed illumination across the central green of Swarthmore College, twinkling in as much subtle grace as the stars above. Grass sinks beneath the steps of Adam’s oxfords, damp from dew and crisp in cold. He looks to his Mediterranean skin, and admires how the warm fluorescents play with the pigments in the dark.

He thinks of his shoes and wonders if the dew will mess up the leather. He just polished them earlier tonight before meeting with Kat, his girlfriend of almost two years now. Would the wax he’d put on them a few weeks ago hold up against all this water?

Adam can see the dark sky lighten in tinges above Parrish Hall, the tall admissions building which serves as the end of the green. Streaks of midnight blue cut across darker hues, blending across the sky. 

“Shit, I told Daisy I’d be back in her dorm by three-thirty.” 

“Well, it’s four now.”

She’s waiting for him to beg her to stay just a little longer. She waits for an affirmation that her hopes don’t cut as one-sidedly as she fears and yet, as much as the interest is reciprocated, Adam stays silent. 

“Do you want to head back?” 

He studies her pale face, bathed in false yellow light. Her teeth dig into her lower lip. Her eyebrows scrunch together in thought. She looks up at him for guidance, and he smiles reassuringly. He hopes there’s nothing stuck in his teeth. What did he have for lunch again?

“I’m sure she’s asleep by now, right? I bet she wouldn’t mind if we stayed out just a little bit longer.”

Adam’s grin drips in self-assuredness. He turns them to keep walking.

“I’m sure you’ve been to it before, but would you want to check out the amphitheater this late?”

“I haven’t seen it. What’s an amphitheater?”

“What’s an amphitheater?” Adam mocks astonishment, and Emily laughs.

“Well it’s like an auditorium, but outside with grass and trees and… here, you’ll just have to wait to see it when we get there.” Her cheeks flush and Adam thinks to the stars when he sees her teeth peek timidly through her smile. Her hand presses confidently into the fabric of his coat, and her body shift a little closer as they continue to walk.

Rows of stone seats descend to a stage. Trees haphazardly grow between the seats. They descend to a semi-circle platform, raised about four feet from the ground by mossy rock. The entire theater lies under a still carpet of darkness, grass, and dew. Adam breathes deeply as they walk still arm around waist into the grounds. They walk up a few rows before Adam takes off his coat for them both to sit on. 

“A gentleman!” Emily says.

They sit laughing, and she faces him. There, beneath the blue moonlight, every drop of emotion ripples across the pale ocean of her skin. They have no secrets in this silence of nature. He asks her a question about home life and smiles at all the right times. He laughs when she tells a joke, and chides in to prove he’s really listening. The boulder breaks loose and begins to roll. 

A lull in the conversation, and Adam finds himself gazing into Emily’s eyes. Her straight dark brown hair falls and crashes at shoulders, overflowing to her back. He shivers and her hand jumps to his back without hesitation, rubbing him for warmth. He stops shivering, but the hand remains. He shifts a little closer to her and matches her expectant smile with one of his own. The boulder picks up speed.

The point comes, Adam knew too well, when a more than friendly outing of two people becomes just more, and the moment is soiled by guilt in action.  He could gently brush some hair out of the way of her eyes, and leave his hand at the nape of her neck. He’d mention then just how beautiful he found her, and how pretty her eyes looked up close. He’d point out the specks of brown mixed with the green of her irises and how there’s a name for that, but he can’t remember it now. She’d laugh carefully, remembering all the times she’d been hurt. And he’d press his forehead against hers and look at her like she was all that mattered, and that he couldn’t possibly let her go. He’d say he was glad she was at a party on that night, when he was there. She would look down and smile coyly, maybe even mention how nice it was to meet him too. Then she’d lean in. Eyes close. Lips meet.

And with that realization of how easy it could be, of how gracefully Emily had fallen from stranger to prospect, Adam feels the anticipation of the night catch and burn itself out. The excitement fades. She could be to him whatever he wanted her to be. The boulder crashes down, slowing to a rest once more.

Adam checks his watch.

“It’s almost 5.”

Emily looks confused.

“We should probably head back. Daisy’s going to kill me as is, keeping a friend from home out this late.”

As Adam rises he pulls his coat over himself. Standing, he finds himself entirely alone, bathed in the hollow yellow light of the street lamps as he silently walks Emily home.

<p style="text-align: center">
	<i class="fa fa-asterisk stories-pagebreak"></i>
</p>

“And then, literally, I swear to god, it was like his whole body just went limp and he just fucking went down.”

He can barely hear Jay’s rugby story over the sound of trashy dance music, but somehow Adam doesn’t mind missing out. They’re standing next to a beer pong table occupied by the usual. Was the tie clip too formal? He’d look to Jay for a comparison, but he knew he looked better. Jay had rugby bulk but the poor boy didn’t know how to present himself. 

Daisy taps him on the shoulder from behind and starts talking before he’s fully turned. Her eyelids flutter and she speaks with waves of her arms, spilling her drink on the floor, splashing his oxfords. He smells the cheap vodka on her dress that’s slipping off her shoulders. She leans forward as she talks, showing off the bra beneath. Where others see the lace, Adam sees only the unraveling seam on the right strap. He scans the crowd behind her.

His eyes meet with a girl at the opposite end of the room. He raises his bottle and smiles at her. By her piercings and pixie cut, Adam isn’t surprised when she lifts her cup back in reply. Now there’s a girl.

He walks away, and wonders how long it’ll take Daisy to realize he’s left.

“Hey, do I know you or something?”

Adam holds out his hand, introducing himself.

“Adam.”

“Mimi”, she says hesitantly. 

“Well look at that, now we know each other.”

Mimi laughs, and Adam finds comfort in it. Adam likes this part. Sometimes, rarely, he’d misjudge the situation and he’d be talking to a girl who looked far more interesting than she was. But most times they’d smile at him like Mimi, a night of possibilities ahead of them, but only one intended path. 

Adam feels himself drop from a stranger to a friend in a matter of sentences. He points out Sam, one of the beer pong hounds, and tells Mimi he’d promised him a game, but that he doesn’t have a partner. He asks Mimi to join him, the first step. She pretends to think it over before saying yes. He tells her he’s just got to tell Sam to put them on the list. He imagines Mimi looking after him at his back, her confident nature too full of pride to let it slip that she’s interested. He feels a familiar heat churn in his stomach at the image of her enamored slender frame.

A buzz in his pocket interrupts the thought, Kat’s name on the caller ID. She never called this late unless something was wrong. Where did he tell her he was tonight? The library, right. He puts his beer down on the table and starts to chew on his thumbnail. He lets the ring become a missed call. If something were really wrong, she’d call more than once. 

<p style="text-align: center">
	<i class="fa fa-asterisk stories-pagebreak"></i>
</p>

Kat’s father had cancer, and he had been in and out of the hospital since Adam had first met her almost four years ago. Over the course of their relationship, Kat had brought him to see her father many times. Her father had always liked Adam. His skin looked thin even back then, a canvas with too much sickly fabric tightly wrapped around a bony frame, bunching under his neck and eyes but pulled taut across his forehead. Adam remembered the thin blue and purple spider webs that peeked beneath the milky surface of his skin.

A toothy grin would fill Kat’s father’s face each time they’d walk through the door together. At the most recent visit, there for his birthday, he had gripped Adam’s wrist tightly, touching his watch with a bony index finger. 

“That’s a nice watch, Adam! Look at you, you’ve got some style!”

He had laughed at the comment. Kat had jabbed him too, reminding him of the days before college when he would wear the same worn jeans every day. Her father’s laughing turned into coughing, and Adam remembered feeling very small. He had thought then about how silly he felt in his oxfords and his button-down and his wristwatch and how it all felt like a costume. Then he watched Kat’s father heave blood, and Kat ran to the side of the bed and her mother ran outside to get a nurse when the coughing didn’t stop like it usually did, and he froze because what was he supposed to do, and what the hell was he expected to do, and Kat was yelling for someone to save him, but he couldn’t move so he just watched and felt sick, and the more he watched, the more he smaller he felt.

Then the nurse came in and the coughing fit eventually subsided. How could anyone be so frail? Kat had seen that he was upset, and though it was her father and not his, it had been Kat who offered the comfort in some stairwell nearby. And though it was Kat who probably needed it most, it was Adam who crumpled into her arms. She petted his hair and kissed his neck and told him everything would be all right, and that everything would be okay. He had never been so scared. He had never felt so safe.

<p style="text-align: center">
	<i class="fa fa-asterisk stories-pagebreak"></i>
</p>

Adam waits for the phone in his hand to buzz again. He fantasizes the emergency Kat would call for. He runs through the lines he’d say, and how he’d calm her down like she did him. He’d be the man she needed tonight. For weeks she’d tell tonight’s story and there, at the bit about the phone call, she’d pause and look to him with a glimmer in her eye he’d lost years ago now. She’d say how Adam comforted her and calmed her down and how the night turned around the moment she heard him speak.

But she doesn’t call tonight. The phone slips back to the pockets of Adam’s Japanese selvedge jeans as he pushes his night along a track he’s known for most of his college life. He knows he’ll have his up when he connects with Mimi, his peak when she falls to prospect, and his descent when he walks home alone, yet again, with only technicalities absolving him of guilt. Up. Peak. Descent. The track is a loop. While Adam trudges forward on tonight’s lap the only thing absent from his mind is the destination, how for even just a moment his track was stopped, or where he might end up if he weren’t just going in circles.

<p class="notice-info">
	This piece was done for Michael Downing's 2013 Spring Fiction course taught at Tufts University. The requirements were for a 2,500 maximum word short story. I wanted to challenge myself to retell Ovid's tale of Sisyphus, Orpheus, and Eurydice as a foil for a young man's romantic college experience. I wanted to write from the perspective of a protagonist who wasn't likeable, or the character who otherwise typically fills the role of the antagonist in most college romantic short stories: the cheat.
</p>