---
layout: article
title: junebug
modified:
categories: stories
comments: true
excerpt: "Young Junebug loves catching fireflies in the backyard, to the dismay of her worried father... {13m}"
tags: ["long story", "story"]
image:
  feature: junebug-feature.jpg
  teaser: junebug-teaser.jpg
  thumb: junebug-thumb.jpg
  credit: Rula Sibai
  creditlink: https://unsplash.com/rulasibai
---

<h4 class="subtitle">&The Firefly</h4>
<h4 class="minutes-to-read">~ 13m ~</h4>

I like nighttime. I’m not supposed to, I think, and sometimes I think Daddy wishes I didn’t, but I do. The grass in the backyard feels wet on my feet. Nobody bothers me. Today, I brought another jar home from school. Daddy says that they’re not toys. I lay down in the the backyard. It’s dark and blue out, the perfect time to catch a lightning bug. When I’m real quiet they don’t even see me. 

They're all flying around me. They always seem way closer than they are. I wish I could fly. If I could, I’d be like a lightning bug – I’d just fly around in loop-de-loops and circles. I put the glass jar over one and he lights up, hitting off the glass. I slip the lid under the leaf and I don’t even drop him. I’m getting so good. I stay down on the grass and just look at him for a while. 

I can hear the back door of the house open.

“Elizabeth! Are you out here? Elizabeth!”

“Look!” I show him the lightning bug I caught.

“You know it’s past your bedtime, Junebug. It’s not good to be out when nobody’s here.”

“I’m sorry Daddy.”

“It’s okay Junebug. Just get ready for bed.”

I put the jar up on the top of the bathroom counter and reach for my toothbrush and the toothpaste. I look at the jar as I brush my teeth. I think I’m gonna call him Buggy. He’s at the bottom of the jar, still sitting on his leaf. He’s not flying around anymore. He’s looking at me so I smile at him real big and some toothpaste spills out of my missing front tooth onto my shirt. 

“Whatchya lookin’ at Buggy?”

I hear Daddy sit down in his chair with a groan. His beer cracks open then the TV turns on. He puts the volume down. I pull myself up and spit in the sink. I jump up, trying to see my face, all smudged with dirt from outside. I want to see if my front tooth is gonna grow in soon, but I can’t see anything. 

“Hey Daddy?”

“Yes?” He sounds sleepy.

“Do you think Buggy knows he’s in a jar?”

I wait. No answer. I ask him again louder.

“Who?”

I run over with the jar and point.

“Buggy! Do you think he knows he’s in the jar?”

He looks at me and he smiles for a second, patting my head.

“I don’t think so, Junebug. Don't forget to poke some holes so Buggy can breathe.” 

His eyes close and he lets out a deep sigh. I put his beer can up on the table so it doesn’t spill. I whisper goodnight.

I grab Buggy before going to bed and put him up on the table next to my bed. All of my pink sheets are on the floor, covered by my clothes. I turn out the lights, and then get a big comforter that’s under my bed. 

My foot hits an old baby book. It’s about bugs. I remember Daddy reading it to me, and Daddy said that even when people go away they’re still around in the things they loved. When I open up my bedroom window I can see the backyard all lit up by tiny dots. I turn on my nightlight so the lightning bugs outside can see me too. I pull up the sheets over me and say good night to Buggy.

<p style="text-align: center">
	<i class="fa fa-asterisk stories-pagebreak"></i>
</p>

Melissa has a big house. Melissa says her daddy and mommy sleep in a room almost as big as my house. And she says that her daddy rides a helicopter to work in the morning, and that she has an elf that makes her lunches special just for her. She says that she has a pony, but that it can’t stay in the backyard, because her parents say that the suburbs is no place to raise a horse, so they keep it in Kentucky, with her aunt Sue, who invented Dora the Explorer.

I’m playing with Melissa in her room. I like her room. It’s really clean, and we always sit on her fuzzy rug when we play with her dolls. She has way more toys than me. She keeps all her dolls in a big bin, and says that she doesn’t have enough. We’re playing with a dollhouse. I pick up a pretty doll with blonde hair and a pink dress with sparkles. Melissa grabs it out of my hands. 

“I wanted that one, it’s my favorite!”

“But you already have a doll to play with!”

“Yeah but they’re my dolls, not yours.”

I pick another doll out from the bin. She’s missing an arm.

Melissa’s mommy comes in to check on us. She always smiles weird at me. One time when Daddy and I were at the zoo, one of the gorillas was really sick and sleepy and the kids next to us were making fun of him, and Daddy looked sad. I told him that the gorilla probably couldn’t even hear them, and that he shouldn’t be sad. He smiled at me weird. His lips went up, but his eyes still looked really sad.

Melissa’s mom smiles at me different weird. She also always calls me Lizzy. I don’t like Lizzy, I like Elizabeth Junior. 

Melissa says she wants to play with her other dollhouse that her parents got her last weekend. She says her daddy also took her up to fly in the helicopter to take him to work with the President, and sometimes her daddy beats him at cards. 

Melissa’s mom walks in. She always walks really careful.

“Hey there girls, how are we doing?”

“We’re playing house, Mommy!”

“Aw, adorable! You two having fun?”

“Yeah Mommy, we are having so much fun!”

“Oh wow, Lizzy, look at all those animals on your shirt! Do you like animals?”

Melissa looks mad. I nod and then say, “Yeah I love animals, especially bugs! I’m gonna grow up and be a ant-oh-mologist! They study bugs.”

“I think bugs are gross!” Melissa sticks out her tongue.

I don’t know what to say so I look down at my doll. 

“Well I think they’re cool,” I say quietly.

“Melissa, did you invite Lizzy for dinner?”

“Yeah please, you have to, it would be so much fun!”

“How about I call your mom and dad and let them know?” 

“She’s gotta to stay for dinner, Mommy, you should call!”

My doll's only got one arm, and she's making me sad.

<p style="text-align: center">
	<i class="fa fa-asterisk stories-pagebreak"></i>
</p>

I don’t like eating over at Melissa’s house. She always makes her parents make her something special because she won’t eat what they’re eating, and it makes me mad. Tonight there’s chicken on the table, but Melissa says it’s gross. She wants noodles with butter and cheese. Melissa and I sit next to each other, and her mom gets us plates and forks. 

“No Mommy, I want a bowl, I’m gonna have noodles, remember?”

I get noodles too. I want chicken instead, but I don’t say anything.

Her daddy comes in the house while we’re eating. Melissa yells out and runs to him for a big hug. He picks her up and holds her, and Melissa’s mom comes over to kiss him. They don’t say anything for a little bit, and her dad just holds her. Her mom has her arms wrapped around both of them, her head titled over on Melissa’s. She says I love you to Melissa, then to Melissa’s daddy, then to Melissa again. The one-armed doll is looking at me from the table. I knock her over to the floor.

“Elizabeth! I didn’t know you were joining us for dinner!”

I stick a noodle in my mouth and chew. He walks over and pats me on the head.

“So how’s school going, kiddo?”

“Good.”

“Do you like Mrs. Doberman? Melissa here says she’s much better than Mrs. Peterson from last year, isn’t that right Melissa?”

“Yeah she’s way better. She lets us drink juice boxes during math.”

“Honey, guess what Lizzy told me today. She said she wants to grow to be an ento, anto, epno – what was it, Lizzy?”

“I want to grow up to be a ant-oh-mologist,” I say to my noodles quietly.

“Wow! That’s a big word! Melissa, do you know what that means?”

“I know what it means,” Melissa says, spraying noodles on the table, “it means she wants to grow up and look at gross ugly bugs!”

<p style="text-align: center">
	<i class="fa fa-asterisk stories-pagebreak"></i>
</p>

I open up the front door with the key behind the loose brick. When it opens, I wave away Melissa and her mom. She honks goodbye.

The lights are off and the room is really dark. I can see Daddy’s car parked out front through the window. 

“Daddy?”

I walk upstairs and check the room with the TV.

“Daddy, are you in here?”

I check my room. It’s quiet and empty. I go back downstairs. I can feel my heart.

“Daddy! Where are you?”

I check the kitchen, and the door to outside is open.

I see the lightning bugs before I see him, laying on the grass. 

“Daddy! I couldn’t find you!”

My baby book about bugs is on the grass next to him. So is Buggy’s jar, and it’s open. His eyes are red and watery again. I give him a big hug and he holds me in the grass. My eyes feel hot and wet but I've cried enough to know how to do it without making too much noise so I just sit on his lap and we watch all the bugs fly around us. 

“I miss her Daddy,” I whisper.

“Me too Junebug,” his voice sounds wet, “me too.”

He holds on to me tight and kisses the top of my head. He hugs me again as I cry into his shoulder. His work shirt smells like outside and it reminds me of family dinners and going to the zoo together and learning about the animals and bugs and playing Sorry! and I’d always win and I miss it all so much so I cry harder and I miss her so I cry even harder and I’m choking and I’m sleepy and I’m warm in Daddy’s arms.

Daddy’s rocking me, telling me it’s okay and it’ll all be alright. The last thing I feel is a lightning bug land on my leg.

<p class="notice-warning">
	This piece was done for Michael Downing's 2013 Spring Fiction course taught at Tufts University. The requirements were for a 2,500 maximum word short story. I wanted to challenge myself by writing as far from my natural speaking voice (young adult male) as possible.
</p>
