---
layout: article
title: pugilism
modified:
categories: stories
comments: true
excerpt: "Jane trains for her upcoming match, but must acclimate to her coach's climate... {2m}"
tags: ["short story", "short", "exercise"]
image:
  feature: pugilism-feature.JPG
  teaser: pugilism-teaser.JPG
  thumb: pugilism-thumb.JPG
  credit: Kelley Bozarth
  creditlink: https://unsplash.com/kelleybozarth
---

<h4 class="subtitle"></h4>
<h4 class="minutes-to-read">~ 2m ~</h4>


“Jane!” Rob said, as he walked back in through the gym door, “I thought I told you to keep this closed!” He walked to the source of the draft in the room and slammed the sill shut. He faced Jane with a look. 

She said to her coach, “well then you should turn down the heat; I can’t box like this!”
“Jane, this is my way. Heat. Sweat. This is how you win.”

Jane put her buds back in her ears, rolled her eyes, and turned back.
With a mad grunt, Rob turned away to leave. 

Jane kept at it. Each punch she threw hit hard, and she felt the shock through her gloves and wraps. The hits were beats to the song in her head. With each punch she blew out air to make a sound, a sort of hiss. Jane could feel her arms tire. She pushed through the pain to let out a loud breath and a hard right hook, which hit the bag with a nice slap. She put her hands on her knees and bent to the floor, to catch her breath. She looked up to see Rob, her coach, with his hand on his face in thought.

“What.” Breath. “Is it?” Breath.

A pause. “I don’t think you’re ready,” came the reply.

“For the Greene fight?”

“You’re going to lose. Train like this, you lose.”

She looked down at her sweat on the mats.

“Turn up the heat.”


<p class="notice-danger">
	This piece was done for Michael Downing's 2013 Spring Fiction course taught at Tufts University. The objective of this exercise was to write within extreme limits. The setting is a room. There is a woman in the room. A man enters the room, closes the window, and leaves the room. Words can only be one syllable. Word limit: 250 words (248 words).
</p>