---
layout: article
title: luck
modified:
categories: stories
comments: true
excerpt: "A dystopian future where once child becomes adult, an adult is replaced... {2m}"
tags: ["short story", "short", "exercise"]
image:
  feature: luck-feature.JPG
  teaser: luck-teaser.JPG
  thumb: luck-thumb.JPG
  credit: Charlie Foster
  creditlink: https://unsplash.com/charliefoster
---

<h4 class="subtitle"></h4>
<h4 class="minutes-to-read">~ 2m ~</h4>

The old theater is in the center of town. Tall ceilings slope downward toward the stage. At the crest hangs a large portrait of a decorated general. The felt seats match the red velvet walls. There are 500 of them. Exactly 500.

Each seat is assigned, one for each adult citizen. This city produces lumber, so once of age each child attempts to split a log. If they succeed, the cycle is ended, and the most criminal citizen is replaced.

A940, Ninny, files in to the third row from the back. Sef’s seat is empty next to him. Each time a child splits a log, all 500 are called to the theater. All but one are seated. The citizen waits behind the curtain. The child waits outside.

Sef came to Ninny only two days ago with the note from the border fence. “Luck”, and its definition, hand scrawled. Flowery handwriting. Illegal. It took a day to be found. In this coming cycle, a child will be murdered. But this cycle, Sef’s crime stands alone.
The district must remain 500. Each time, it’s the same. First they call the number, then the crime, and then the citizen is “removed” on stage. The child is called in to take the empty seat and bear witness.

The lights dim, and the curtain is pulled back. Everyone attending is seated. Ninny’s hand rests on the empty seat. He thinks about the note in the darkness, waiting for Sef’s number to be called.


<p class="notice">
	This piece was done for Michael Downing's 2013 Spring Fiction course taught at Tufts University. The objective of this exercise was to explore 3rd person omnicient. The protagonist's name must begin with A, the setting must be a theater, the story must be entire contained within the theater, and the story must end as the curtain opens. Word limit: 250 words (248 words).
</p>